HTTP target URI audience model and response request binding (#173, #175, #240) (#246)
ietf-wg-wimse/draft-ietf-wimse-s2s-protocol: draft-ietf-wimse-workload-creds.md

To enable mutual and granular authentication between workloads, two things must be in place:

- Each workload must know its own identifier.

> - The infrastructure must make available to workloads some means to verify that an HTTP target URI ({{Section 7.1 of RFC9110}}), without query or fragment components, is intended for them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Each workload must be able to verify that an HTTP target URI ({{Section 7.1 of RFC9110}}) is intended for it.
```

Reviewer 2: I don't understand why this criteria is needed here.  I think the criteria should be.  It needs to have the information to properly validate a workload credential. 
```suggestion
- A workload must have the information needed to properly validate a workload credential
```

Author: The intent here is for the callee to validate that a request is intended for it, in other words that it is the intended audience.

@yaroslavros although the caller (usually) sets the `aud` to the Request URI, this value might be modified in transit by proxies. So we cannot assume it is seen by the recipient.

@jsalowey this is not about validating the credential but rather about ensuring that it's targeted at this particular recipient.

> Once these conditions are met, the methods described in this document can be used for the caller and callee to authenticate. Specifically, deployments should use this capability for consistent audience validation within their environment.

Reviewer 2: This needs to be broken out into a a statement that is general for workload credentials

```suggestion
Once these conditions are met, the methods described in this document can be used for the caller and callee to authenticate one another. 
```
Then there can be discussion that is specific to the application layer credential (WIT) and the transport layer credential (x.509)

> Once these conditions are met, the methods described in this document can be used for the caller and callee to mutually authenticate. Specifically, deployments should use this capability for consistent audience validation within their environment.

Reviewer 3: mutually is too much 

```suggestion
Once these conditions are met, the methods described in this document can be used for the caller and callee to authenticate. Specifically, deployments should use this capability for consistent audience validation within their environment.
```

Application-level proof-of-possession mechanisms in {{?I-D.ietf-wimse-wpt}} and {{?I-D.ietf-wimse-http-signature}} use the HTTP target URI ({{Section 7.1 of RFC9110}}) of the request, without query or fragment components, as audience. The Workload Identifier in a WIT or WIC identifies the sender; the audience identifies the intended recipient. The caller sets the audience to the HTTP target URI; the callee verifies that the audience is intended for it using infrastructure support as described above, including any deployment-specific aliases or normalization. For mutual TLS, the caller uses the same support when validating the server by workload identity rather than DNS hostname (see {{?I-D.ietf-wimse-mutual-tls}}).

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer 2: I think this text could be OK if it is called out as specific to WIT and the TLS text is in a separate paragraph/subsection.

To enable mutual and granular authentication between workloads, two things must be in place:

- Each workload must know its own identifier.
- Each workload must be able to verify that it is the intended recipient of a given request
  (that is, that it is the intended audience for that request).

Once these conditions are met, the methods described in this document can be used for the caller and callee to authenticate one another.

How that recipient check is expressed depends on whether authentication is performed at the application layer or at the transport layer.

### Application-Layer Audience {#app-audience}

Application-level proof-of-possession mechanisms in {{?I-D.ietf-wimse-wpt}} and {{?I-D.ietf-wimse-http-signature}}
bind a request to an intended recipient using an audience value.

> The Workload Identifier in a WIT identifies the sender; the audience identifies the intended recipient.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The Workload Identifier in a WIT identifies the sender; the audience of the PoP identifies the intended recipient.
```

By default, the caller sets the audience to the HTTP target URI ({{Section 7.1 of RFC9110}}) of the request,
without query or fragment components.

> Intermediaries may rewrite that URI in transit, so the callee MUST NOT rely solely on the request URI as

Reviewer 4: I think it's worth to clarify that the URI of the request is re-written, not the URI of the audience.
```suggestion
Intermediaries may rewrite the URI of the request in transit, so the callee MUST NOT rely solely on the request URI as
```

observed on the wire to decide whether it is the intended recipient.
Instead, the callee verifies that the audience value carried in the proof is intended for it.
In some cases this might necessitate infrastructure support to account for deployment-specific aliases or normalization.

> Deployments SHOULD use this capability for consistent audience validation within their environment.

Reviewer 4: It's critical for the security aspects of this draft, shouldn't this be a MUST?

> ### Transport-Layer Recipient Check {#transport-identity}

Author: 1. It's not strictly "transport". 2. Consider removing this subsection altogether.

> At the transport layer there is no separate audience claim analogous to application-layer proof of possession.

Reviewer 4: Does it need HTTP in this section? What if TLS is used with a different application protocol? I suggest keeping it to TLS only?

> ### Transport-Layer Recipient Check {#transport-identity}
> 
> At the transport layer there is no separate audience claim analogous to application-layer proof of possession.
> HTTP already requires that, once a server has reconstructed the request's target URI, it decide whether it is
> configured to process that request and whether the connection context is appropriate for it, and an origin server
> MUST reject requests that appear to have been misdirected ({{Section 7.4 of RFC9110}}).
> When connections are reused across origins — as HTTP/2 permits — a server that is not authoritative for a request
> indicates that by responding with 421 (Misdirected Request) ({{Section 9.1.1 of ?RFC9113}}).
> That check — together with ordinary TLS server authentication (including the rules in {{?I-D.ietf-wimse-mutual-tls}}) —
> is the recipient validation available when relying on mutual TLS alone.

Reviewer 3: as discussed on 8/25 
```suggestion
```
